---
title: Week 12 Homework
published_at: 2024-06-18
snippet: Assignment 3 Response/Reflection
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

<h2>Script</h2>

<h3>Plan</h3>
For this assignment, we were to make something ‘Interesting’, once we were given the option of making something for our pets, I decided I wanted to make a website for my cats.

Every once in a while, when my cats are around, I search up videos for cats on YouTube, and usually click this video. 
It’s a simple video, just these rats that move around the screen, and It’s fun since they seem to watch it a lot when Its’ on, even occasionally reaching out to the screen. 
My website similarly has a rat wander around the screen, turning before moving and playing ‘rat sounds’.
Though my website differs in an additional function, if the user clicks the screen, it flashes a random colour, plays a playful sound and the rat runs off-screen, before coming back shortly after, making it somewhat similar to the example shown in class where students interacted with a website to make sounds. I plan to click the screen every time a cat reaches out and touches the screen, adding interactivity to those videos and treating it as if they can interact with the mice see on screen, I’m also hoping they would be startled or at least think they are interacting with the rat whenever the touch the screen.

Running the assignment, I have three cats, the first here is probably my favourite cat, Meow Meow, I imagined her as the most normal compared to my other two cats, she’s somewhat active and pretty nice but also pretty prideful sometimes.

Next is Jojo, he’s a big orange cat, and is probably the laziest since everyone pampers him, I expect him to care the least about the video, but of course still be interested since he is still a cat.

Last is black cat, he is the most active, loves getting attention, but is kind of weird, I’m not too sure how he will react. Though I expect him to be the most active when I get him to view the website.


<h3>What Actually Happened</h3>
I ran the first experiment on Meow Meow, she seemed interested for a little while, even occasionally reaching out to touch the rat, but it didn’t take long for her to get bored of the website, she barely reacted when the screen flashed, and eventually started just wandering around my room.

Next, I ran the experiment on Jojo, he didn’t seem that interested in the website, walking around and meowing. Though after a while I figured he was probably hungry, so eventually I decided to try again later when he wasn’t hungry.

So later that night after feeding him, I showed him the website, he sat in front of the screen and watched, which was pretty exciting as he watched the screen for a while, though overtime his reactions became slower and slower until he stopped moving, and I realised he had fallen asleep, he only reached out to lazily touch the screen once in the minutes of watching.

Last was black cat, the most active but also weirdest. After getting him in my room, I could not him to sit still, much less look at the screen. He would wander around my room and keep begging for pats, after a while of trying to get him to watch the screen and at most getting a short glance or two, I gave up as he did not seem interested at all, I assumed he was just very excited at the chance to possibly get some affection that a rat would mean nothing to him.


<h3>What was Interesting about the experience</h3>
The result of the assignment ended up being very different than I expected, and there are possibly a few issues that could have contributed to that. Though, each of my hypothesis had some part come true, Meow Meow was probably the most normal, Jojo was the laziest and Black Cat was the weirdest, there were also many unexpected results, Meow Meow was much less interested in the video than I expected, Jojo ended up the most engaged, even though it meant sitting still the most and Black Cat reacted weirder than I expected, not really looking, or caring at all about the screen. Also none of them really reacted to the interactivity of the site, the colours and sound didn’t add much but they would sometimes watch as the rat ran away.
I could have made the rat a bit bigger as it might have been too small for them to register as a rat and I could have made the movements smoother. I could have also put some type of background, initially I decided not to after testing around because I thought it could be too distracting but in hindsight, I regret it as some colour in the background could have helped get the attention of my cats. My sister suggested that I could have turn off the lights, so the screen stuck out much more. In the end the assignment was fun, though making the website took more time than I expected, and I got a pretty bad sickness for a while but the funny reactions to my website from my cats were definitely worth it.


<h2>Reflection</h2>

It honestly took me a while to decide on what my assignment would relate to or what community of practise it would relate to. After hearing I could involve my pets, I decided on that, but started indecisively changing between that and my siblings or friends.

After a while of cutting down ideas it was down to something similar to Lauren Lee McCarthy’s ‘I heard TALKING IS DANGEROUS’, or something simple and interactive for my cats, though I felt the first idea would be easy, it felt cheap to me and not as fun so I ultimately decided something for my cats would be more fun and have more personality.

The idea I ended up with was a moving rat on the screen (on a website). I got this idea from the times a cat would be lounging around nearby, and I would randomly want to play with them, so I would search up videos for cats and usually end up using something similar to this video. Which would seem to engage them a fair bit. Though I wanted to add something interactive for them as when I do show them on a MacBook or iPad screen, they would try touch the screen/rats and nothing would happen, so I wanted something more fun/interactive for them, the rat would run away, and for the fun of it, the screen would also flash and play a fun sound.

The website ended up being much more difficult to make than I thought, the movement of the rat kept ending up very buggy, teleporting and not properly moving, especially when I started trying to implement the interactivity. I also tested around with backgrounds, some moving, and some static, but eventually decided that blank white fit best and contrasted the rat the best, but in hindsight I regret this decision as the website seems pretty empty and a moving background could have gotten the attention of my cats a little better.



